For the students:
Staring below is a listing of information/ data to be warehoused for individual cattle. There will be a “herd health” section, and the logic should be that usually when I vaccinate one, I vaccinate all in the herd. So…. Some type system/ logic that says  when I vaccinate, rather than entering individually, I enter for groups: i.e., vaccinated all “cows today with BVD, PI3, etc.,”
This is why we need interactive birthdates and definitions; so I just input all “cows” and all “calves” were vaccinated, and the program decides which group they belong to. So, your software will need to calculate ages; calves will be 1 – 365 days of age, then they are 12 – 24 months of age and are either bulls, steers, or heifers; and 24 – 36 mo are first calf-heifers, and 3 years+ are either cows or bulls. Each of these groups are managed and treated/ vaccinated differently.
 
So the list:
1)      Name of Farm
2)      City, State
3)      Farm Zip code
4)      Date of birth of calves
5)      Calf dam and sire
6)      Calf number/ ID
7)      Calf location/ pasture number
8)      Calf management at birth
a.       Sex
b.      Vaccines administered
c.       Castrated
d.      Ear tag
e.      Birth weight
f.        Color/ description
g.       Notes on any issues with calf/cow relations
h.      Date weaned
i.         Weaning weight
j.        Weaning weight “index” for this herd
9)      Cow condition at calving
a.       Assigned “herd number”
b.      Calving ease/ any problems
c.       Birthweight
d.      Cow Body Condition Score at Calving
e.      Notes on any issues with cow/calf relations (is the cow a good “mother”)
f.        Cow physical condition at birth
g.       Pasture # at birth
10)   “Herd Number” for each group on the farm
a.       Number of cows in herd
b.      Bulls
                                                               i.      When were bulls turned into the herd
                                                             ii.      Bull I.D.
                                                            iii.      When were bulls removed from the herd
c.       Cows added to the herd, I.D.
                                                               i.      Where did the cow or bull come from? (purchased, transferred from other herd on-farm, etc.)
d.      Cows removed from the herd
e.      Reason for removing cows from herd (open, low weaning weight, old age, physical issue, other)
11)   Pasture Management Record
a.       Pasture number for where herd is located
b.      Each time cattle are rotated, what is the new pasture #
c.       Nutrition on pasture:
                                                               i.      When pastures received fertilizers
                                                             ii.      What fertilizer was applied
                                                            iii.      Weed control program
1.       Chemical weed control product
2.       Chemical rate applied
3.       Problem weeds identified
4.       Date applied
                                                           iv.      Pasture management practices
1.       Date pasture was “shredded” for weed control
2.       Primary grasses/ clovers in pasture
3.       Grasses planted: date and seeding rates
4.       Clovers/ legumes planted: dates and seeding rates
                                                             v.      Hay production
1.       Date of hay harvests
2.       Bales of hay produced each cutting
3.       Weight of your “average” hay bale
12)   Herd Health Record:
a.       Date of health treatment
b.      Herd Health treatment applied (the program needs to define this animal, based on its date of birth) 
                                                               i.      A “calf” is any animal 1 – 365 days of age.
                                                             ii.      A “weaned” calf has been weaned, but is still defined as an age in days, less than 12 months of age
                                                            iii.      A “heifer,” “steer,” or “bull calf” is an animal greater than 365 days of age, but less than 24 months; and their “age” will be defined in “months.”
                                                           iv.      Starting at the age of 24 months, a “bull” is defined by years; a “first-calve heifer” is 24 – 36 months of age
                                                             v.      A “cow” is 36 months/ 3 years of age and older, and her age is listed as “years.”
c.       Individual herd health treatments
                                                               i.      Animal ID
                                                             ii.      Date
                                                            iii.      Description of health issue
                                                           iv.      Disposition of health issue
                                                             v.      Did animal die?
                                                           vi.      Will animal be culled due to this problem at a later date?